# Administrative
This folder contains more general information and notes relevant to the behind-the-scenes running of the course than is present in each of the [classes](../classes) folders.

***

### Prior to start of quarter:
-  Update main README (contact info, etc.)
-  Update Canvas page
-  Update Introduction Beamer slides
-  Setup Discord server (if teaching remote)

### After start of quarter:
- Email students' ONID ID's to COSINE to create HPC accounts
- Add student' GitHub handles to new team (e.g., 2020Fall) within organization
- Fork students' repos to Organization

### At end of quarter:
- Organize/summarize student feedback
- Create new "Release" tag for the year
- Delete students' repo forks

***
***
# Things to post or do


#### _First day:_

Hi everyone,

I probably won't do this regularly down the road, but because of how much information I gave you today I figure it'd be helpful to summarize your to-do's.

- Apps & Accounts (for Tuesday)
  - Create a GitHub account (and send me your username)
  - Install Git and LaTex
  - Pick and install a Git GUI
  - Decide whether to use a browser-based or stand-alone text-editor (primarily for LaTex, but also relevant to Markdown), and either create an account or install.
- Discord
  - Create account (and install)
  - I will send-out an invite to join tomorrow (Friday) morning.  You will have 48 hrs to join.  (The invitation will have installation details too.)
- Readings (for Tuesday)
  - The paper assigned for today
  - My notes for Structured Projects
  - My notes for Git w/ GitHub
  - The "Getting Started w/ Git"
- Project Proposal (for Thursday)
  - Start planning & putting together your presentation
  - see README for details and additional before-class to-do's

Finally, please email me if you'd like to discuss your project idea before committing to something.

I think that's it.

-mark

***

#### _Week 2 - Before Project Proposal presentations:_

- Post text for [What to do with an idea](../classes/ProjectProposal/notes/What_to_do_with_an_idea.md)
- Fork everyone's repo to the organization (to enable use of Issue for peer feedback, while not having that feedback be a part of what could end up being a permanent and public repository. (Forks will be deleted at the end of the class).)


#### _Week 3 - Before Visualization in Wk 5_

In our upcoming class on _Data Visualization_, I'd like for us to critique (not necessary criticize) published figures from the literature to see what aspects of data visualization can work well and what often doesn't.  As fodder for our discussion, please submit to me a copy of each of the following by the end of week 4 (via email is fine):

1) A figure _that you really like_;
2) A figure _that you think could present the data (or the main message of the paper) better_.

The figures can be old or new (i.e. it doesn't matter what year they were published), simple or complex, single- or multi-paneled, etc.  The only real requirement is that they depict data or their quantitative summary (i.e. are not conceptual figures or the like).

P.S. Feel free to submit any additional figures to share beyond those two, if you'd like.


***
***

# Class notes
Post-class reflections

### Introduction
#### _2020Fall_
Required entire time period (w/ 5 min. break) but didn't have time for actually doing the app installations or starting on proposals.
Took 70 min to get to end of class schedule (though could be done more efficiently).
Probably spent only 5 min. in discussion/answering questions.


### Intro2Git
#### _2020Fall_
Project structure took ~65 minutes! (I talked too much). Hence Intro2Git was rushed.
Everyone using either RStudio or SourceTree, hence showed cloning in both (but rushed).
Didn't leave enough time to talk about Git workflow, or about how to write "informative" commit messages.

### Project presentations
#### _2020Fall_
Technical challenges:
 - Bandwidth (turning off all videos seemed to help)
 - "Presentation mode" did not work for anyone.  (Discord stays on main app screen.)  Need to just present in main app screen.
 - One student had flashing screen (display frequency issue?)

Most students took ~8-9 minutes.
Need to clarify expectation for "Project goals" to be less about science and more about implementation goals.

### Workflow diagrams
#### _2020Fall_
- Planned for ~20 min. of paper discussion (both Sandve and Shade & Teal papers), but (i) felt too short for both (despite mostly quiet students) and (ii) needs more structure (better to pose question and invite response than leaving flow open).
- Need to discuss details of Shade & Teal diagram (Fig. 1) more explicitly (distinguishing features from flow diagrams in general) to preempt creation of (i) overly general, (ii) unstructured, reticulate, non-hierarchical, non-directional diagrams.
- Breaking out into pair discussions seemed to go well, but little desire to volunteer sharing diagram in whole group.
- Consider assigning finishing-up diagrams as homework to be submitted.
- Consider splitting into two classes (with homework in between) to permit students more time to work on diagrams and then, in class, explain to each other / review each other's diagrams at greater length.

### Coding best Practices
#### _2020Fall_
- Felt like a lot of time talking (e.g., took until 11:10 to talk about readability), so consider creating exercises instead.
- Student request for resources regarding unit-testing.

####  Typesetting with LaTex
- Most people used OverLeaf, so be sure to place all needed files on OverLeaf.

***
***
